Article 10:
A 41-yr old male presented to an outside hospital with worsening headaches and vomiting. A head computed tomography (CT) scan revealed right-sided cerebellar hemorrhage with fourth ventricular effacement, and a suboccipital craniotomy for hematoma evacuation was performed emergently. Intraoperatively, an underlying mass was noted but not resected due to suspicion for arteriovenous malformation. The patient was then transferred to our institution for definitive management. On presentation, a cerebral angiogram was performed and was negative for any vascular malformation or aneurysm. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated an enhancing mass in the anterior right cerebellar hemisphere with adjacent hemorrhage posteriorly. An oncologic workup ensued and a CT of the chest revealed a left upper lobe mass suspicious for pulmonary malignancy. A positron-emission tomography confirmed the lung mass and demonstrated liver and brain metastases. The patient underwent a repeat suboccipital craniotomy for resection of the right cerebellar mass. Intraoperatively, a soft gray tumor with necrosis and hemorrhagic conversion was encountered. A gross total resection was achieved. No underlying vascular malformation or abnormality was encountered surgically. Microscopic examination of the right cerebellar mass demonstrated a high-grade malignant carcinoma consisting of tumor cells with extensive nuclear anaplasia, including frequent giant cell forms. The final diagnosis was metastatic poorly differentiated nonsmall cell carcinoma of lung origin. The patient was neurologically intact and was discharged home. He then began a regimen of carboplatin and paclitaxel with plans for repeat imaging after 2 and 4 cycles, followed by radiation treatments. He received 3000 cGy in 10 fractions. Five weeks after discharge, he returned to the hospital with dizziness, nausea, and vomiting. MRI revealed a new left cerebellar infarct and postsurgical changes (Figure 5A), while a magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) demonstrated normal cerebral circulation with no evidence of aneurysm (Figure 5B). The patient was evaluated by neurology and discharged 2 d later with therapeutic enoxaparin for presumed malignancy-induced hypercoagulable state. Nineteen days after this admission, he represented with headaches, nausea, vomiting, progressive weakness, and a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. CT head revealed diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage, and computed tomography angiogram (CTA) showed a new 1.3 cm left superior cerebellar artery aneurysm. The patient had a very poor neurological exam, extending in all extremities, and an external ventricular drain (EVD) was placed emergently. He was not stable enough to undergo a cerebral angiogram or surgical intervention. A few hours later, he developed refractory intracranial hypertension and the EVD began draining blood. He subsequently lost brainstem reflexes and repeat CT demonstrated increased intraventricular hemorrhage with diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage consistent with aneurysmal rerupture. Given his very poor neurological exam, prognosis, and metastatic cancer, his family elected to pursue comfort measures only. He was then terminally extubated and expired soon after. Postmortem examination was declined and informed consent was obtained from next of kin.
