Article 12:
A 55-year-old postmenopausal female admitted in neurosurgery department with sudden onset of headache followed by vomiting and loss of consciousness. The patient was nonsmoker and nonalcoholic. She did not have any history of cardiac disease, antihypertensive medication nor there was any history of substance abuse. On examination, the patient was unconscious. She did not have eye opening on pain, no verbal response and localizing on painful stimulus (Glasgow coma scale [GCS] E1V1M5). Her pupils were 4 mm, round, regular and reacting to the light bilaterally and equally. Her pulse rate was 60 per min and blood pressure was 160/90. Patients urgently intubated and taken for the computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain that showed subarachnoid hemorrhage (Fisher Grade 4) in bilateral sylvian fissure and suprasellar cistern with intraventricular extension. CT Angiography of the brain showed multiple aneurysms, and to our surprise, there were ten aneurysms including basilar top, both posterior communicating artery, anterior communicating artery, both middle cerebral artery (MCA) bifurcation, bilateral distal anterior cerebral artery, and bilateral distal MCA aneurysm. On hematological examination, her hemoglobin was 13 g%, white blood cell count 6000, and platelet count 200,000. Serum electrolyte, liver, and renal function test were within normal range. Coagulation profile revealed prolonged prothrombin time with normal activated partial thromboplastin time. Blood serum level of Factor VII was 18%. Ultrasonography of abdomen did not reveal any abnormality in kidneys and architecture of the liver was well preserved. Patient treated with ventilator with antiepileptics, intravenous nimodipine, and mannitol. Transfusion of recombinant Factor VII done. Repeat CT scan does not show any evidence of hydrocephalus. Patient advised for coiling of aneurysms but before we could perform definitive treatment patient re-bleed and her GCS response become E1V1M1. Repeat CT scan of the brain showed multiple infract in the brain with hydrocephalus for that external ventricular drain insert. In spite of all the efforts patient could not save and died on 3 days after admission.
