Article 1
The patient was a 46-year-old man. He had intermittent right-side headache for 5 years, and he complained left lower limb numbness for 3 months. Physical examination found no sensory loss in both upper and lower extremities. The patient had normal muscle tone and deep tendon reflex. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head, performed without the administration of intravenous contrast material, revealed an aneurysm at right MCA M1 segment, (5 × 4 × 4 cm3). Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) confirmed the diagnosis of right MCA aneurysm. The patient had no history of hypertension, diabetic mellitus, and coronary artery disease. New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification was grade I, and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification was grade I. The patient had normal ECG, pulmonary function, echocardiography, Holter, and coronary CT angiography (CCTA) tests. Considering the size of this MCA aneurysm was large, and patient had good cardiac and pulmonary functions, it was therefore decided to use RVP to reduce BP during MCA aneurysm repair, and to lower the risk of intracranial hemorrhage during procedure. General anesthesia was performed by a team consisting of an anesthesiologist and nurses with experience in cardiac intervention and surgery. The patient was given 1 mg midazolam, 0.5 g fentanyl, 1.0 μg/mL propofol (target-controlled infusion), and levetiracetam to induce anesthesia. The respiratory rate and cardiac function were closely monitored. Local anesthesia was performed by injecting 2% lidocaine around left radial artery. A 4-French introducer sheath was placed in radial artery to set up A-line. On examination, the BP was 106/56 mm Hg, HR was 56 bpm, and oxygen saturation was 99%. A 6Fr catheter was put into left axillary vein under ultrasound guidance to set up C-line. A 5Fr flow directed pacing catheter was inserted into right ventricle, and the probe was inserted around 45 cm and reached the right ventricular apex. Correct positioning of the pacing electrode was confirmed via continuous ECG monitoring under pacer stimulation with a low pacing threshold. External defibrillation pads were placed on the chest wall. The patient was put in supine position, and his head was turn toward left side around 20°. Cut skin and temporalis, and exposed frontal bone and temporal bone, and opened a window in this area. Incised the dura, and started to dissect the aneurysm. When the aneurysm was fully exposed, the RVP was started to reduce BP. RVP was induced totally four times during the entire procedure. Twice was induced when isolating aneurysm and twice was started during clip placement. The first RVP lasted 120 s and maximum HR was 130 bpm, and lowest BP reached 58/38 mm Hg. The second RVP lasted 50 s, and maximum HR was 150 bpm, and lowest BP reached 39/21 mm Hg. The third RVP lasted 50 s, and the maximum HR was 160 bpm, and lowest BP reached 29/26 mm Hg. The last RVP lasts 50 s and the maximum HR was 165 bpm, and the lowest BP reached 28/23 mmHg. There were at least 3 min gap period between each RVP episodes. Every time RVP was induced, the HR reached the maximum HR in 5 s, and the average BP dropped to the lowest level. After that the BP increased gradually in 50 s, and eventually it reached to 58%–80% of BP before RVP induction. RVP significantly reduced the tension of aneurysm when isolating the MCA M1 fragment and decreased the risk of rupture. Once the aneurysm was fully exposed, we induced another two episodes of RVP to clip the aneurysm. Intraoperatively, indocyanine green (ICG) video angiography was used to verify aneurysm occlusion as well as parent vessel perfusion after each clip placement. The patient was in very stable condition during the entire procedure. No vasoactive and anti-arrhythmia drugs were used, and no adjustment of doses of fentanyl and propofol as well. The MCA aneurysm was clipped successfully. The temporary pacing was removed after the surgery. The surgery lasted 6 h and 40 min, and total RVP time was less than 5 min. The patient was transferred to post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) for observing around 2.5 h. After the patient woke up and the Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) was more than 6, the patient was transferred to ICU. CT scan confirmed no intracranial bleeding, and there were no arterial blood gas changes during or after RVP, compared with before RVP. The biomarkers for cardiac muscle damages, including CK-MB, troponin T, and ProBNP, were increased at 24 h after surgery. Seven weeks after surgery, the patient was fully conscious and cooperative. Muscle tone of right side extremities were grade V and left side extremities were grade IV. CTA confirmed no MCA aneurysm, and the patient was discharged.
