Article 8
A 60-year-old female, was admitted to the fifth cerebrovascular ward of the Neurosurgery Department of Henan Provincial People's Hospital on 27 September 2021, mainly due to “19 years of left ear hearing loss and intermittent dizziness for 11 days”. Nineteen years ago, the patient developed intermittent tinnitus with hearing loss and was not treated. Eleven days ago, due to dizziness, as visual rotation—without facial numbness, pain and cough—she visited a local hospital, and the head MRI showed the following: (1) the left cerebellopontine angle area occupying lesions, considering acoustic neuroma; (2) multiple luminal infarcts in the right lateral frontal lobe and the semi oval center of the double basal ganglia. For further treatment, she then came to our hospital. She had a history of hypertension for more than 19 years, was untreated, and underwent total hysterectomy 5 years ago. After admission, head and neck CTA showed the following: (1) The thickness of the right middle cerebral artery M1 segment was uneven, and local nodular protrusion was considered. A possible aneurysm was considered (4.8 × 2.9 mm). (2) The right anterior cerebral artery A2 segment had slender stenosis, the right lateral vertebral artery was slender, and the V4 segment of the left vertebral artery had multiple localized stenoses; Neurological examination showed no positive signs, except for hearing loss in the left ear. Combined with the condition and related examinations, the diagnosis was “occupying lesions in the left cerebellopontine angle area, right middle cerebral aneurysm, cerebral infarction, hypertension, posttotal hysterectomy, and multiple intracranial arterial stenosis”. Combined with the medical history, the patient presented with hearing loss for 19 years and intermittent dizziness for 11 days. MRI found a space-occupying lesion in the left cerebellopontine area. Acoustic neuroma was considered; due to dizziness, the patient underwent CTA to find an aneurysm of the M1 segment of the right middle cerebral artery. Looking at the literature, in a PHASES (referring to 6 factors, namely, population, hypertension, age, aneurysm diameter, aneurysm location, and bleeding history of another aneurysm) study that included 6 cohort studies, the rupture rate was as high as 1.4% within 1 year, and the average rupture rate within 5 years was as high as 3.4%. After admission, the patient was given treatments to stop dizziness and control blood pressure. The symptom of dizziness was significantly improved, and the arterial pressure was controlled at fluctuations of 120–140 mmHg. After multidisciplinary discussion, the first stage of right middle cerebral aneurysm clipping was performed, and the second-stage occupying resection of the cerebellopontine angle on the left side was performed after 1 month. Key points for patient management during the perioperative period were as follows: Three days before surgery, infusion therapy was given to improve circulation, nourish brain nerves, and protect brain function; intraoperative: during the beginning of anesthesia, surgical operation, and postoperative recovery, the cuff should be maintained in conjunction with the blood pressure monitoring value; in the ward, arterial pressure fluctuates in the range of 120–140 mmHg to prevent violent blood pressure fluctuations and cerebrovascular accidents; postoperative: head CT examination on the first day after surgery; ECG monitoring for the first 3 days after surgery, with 3,000–3,500 ml rehydration volume; fluid volume was gradually reduced on the fourth day after surgery, and the patient was discharged on the eighth day after surgery. Neurological examination at discharge was the same as before surgery.
