Article 6
A 54-year-old female, was admitted to the fifth cerebrovascular ward of the Neurosurgery Department of Henan Provincial People's Hospital on 23 September 2021, mainly because the “physical examination found an intracranial aneurysm for more than 8 months.” More than 8 months before admission, the patient had a head injury and no positive signs and went to the local hospital for physical examination. MRA found that the right internal carotid artery traffic segment was considered an aneurysm; the left internal carotid artery (except part of the C7 segment) was severely stenotic or occluded. More than 2 months before admission, she underwent an MRA re-examination at the local hospital. MRA showed that the intracranial segment of the left internal carotid artery was not clearly visible, considering severe stenosis or occlusion; the right internal carotid artery traffic segment was considered an aneurysm; and there was a history of coronary heart disease for more than 7 months. After admission, the ambulatory blood pressure was improved (100–130 mmHg). Head digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed a right internal carotid artery posterior communicating segment aneurysm and left internal carotid artery occlusion. Head magnetic resonance perfusion weighted imaging (PWI) showed that the right basal ganglia may be an acute infarction, the left frontal lobe perfusion was delayed but relatively high perfusion, and the left temporal lobe perfusion was delayed and decreased. There were no significant abnormalities in laboratory-related examinations. Neurological examination showed no positive signs. Combined with medical history and related examinations, the diagnosis was “right internal carotid aneurysm, left internal carotid artery occlusion, and coronary heart disease”. According to the PWI staging of internal carotid artery occlusion, the left internal carotid artery occlusion is divided into Stage Ia, and Rinkel et al. revealed that the overall annual rupture rate of UIAs in patients is 1.9%. After multidisciplinary discussion, one-stage aneurysm clipping was performed, and the left cerebral revascularization was performed in the second stage after 1 month. Key points for patient management during the perioperative period were as follows: Three days before surgery, infusion therapy was given to improve circulation, nourish cranial nerves, and protect brain function; due to the occlusion of the left internal carotid artery, the risk of perioperative cerebral ischemic stroke was higher, and the perioperative period strictly controlled the patient's non-invasive cuff pressure (arterial pressure 100–130 mmHg); intraoperative: during the beginning of anesthesia, surgical operation, and postoperative recovery, according to the patient's ambulatory blood pressure, the cuff arterial pressure was always maintained within the range of 100–130 mmHg to maintain the brain perfusion to prevent violent blood pressure fluctuations, causing cerebrovascular accidents; postoperative: head CT examination on the first day after surgery; ECG monitoring for the first 3 days after surgery to maintain the cuff arterial pressure fluctuating in the range of 100–130 mmHg, 3,000–3,500 ml fluid rehydration volume; gradually reduced fluid volume on the fourth day after surgery, and discharged on the seventh day after surgery. Neurological examination at discharge was the same as before surgery.
