Article 9:
A 75-year-old woman presented with sudden onset of left hemiparesis and dysarthria. She was transferred to our hospital immediately. Her medical history included hypertension and abdominal aortic aneurysm that repaired 5 years previously. On admission, her vital signs were blood pressure, 161/96 mm Hg; heart rate, 99 beats/min; body temperature, 36.8 C; pulse oximetry reading (SpO2 ), 98% on room air. Her Glasgow Coma Scale score was 14 (E4V4M4). Her National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 2 points. Brain computed tomography (CT) on admission showed no abnormal findings except for a high-density round mass, 14 mm in diameter, in the right sylvian fissure, which was suspected to be a TCA. CT angiography and magnetic resonance (MR) angiography demonstrated an aneurysm in the distal part of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) with poor opacification of most of the aneurysm except for the neck, suggesting partial thrombosis of the aneurysm. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging revealed high intensity in the right frontal lobe, in a distribution distal to the aneurysm. The diagnosis was infarction due to embolism from partial thrombosis of the TCA. She was treated with aspirin, argatroban, and edaravone. On day 3 after admission, repeat MR angiography demonstrated enlargement of the aneurysm. On day 4, she suddenly became comatose. Her Glasgow Coma Scale score was 6 (E1V1M4), and the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 34 points. CT showed SAH. CT angiography revealed enlarged opacification of the aneurysm and a finding compatible with the rupture point (Figure 3B). She underwent clipping of the aneurysm after harvesting the superficial temporal artery for bypass on the assumption that trapping of the TCA would be required. The rupture point was found at the tip of the aneurysm with fragile wall, as suggested by CT angiography, which was filled with thrombi inside the aneurysm. The TCA was temporarily trapped, and the thrombi inside the aneurysm were removed, followed by optimal neck clipping (Figure 3C and D). Before rupture of the aneurysm, she was assessed at a modified Rankin Scale score of 3, but her condition worsened to modified Rankin Scale score of 4 probably due to primary damage caused by the SAH.
