Article 7
A 68-year-old male, was admitted to the fifth cerebrovascular ward of the Neurosurgery Department of Henan Provincial People's Hospital on 24 September 2021, mainly due to “suddenly unfavorable left-hand limb activity and skewed mouth angle for 3 hours”. Three hours ago, the patient had a sudden left-side limb movement disorder and a skewed mouth angle, with no obvious positive signs. After 30 min of rest, the above symptoms disappeared; he then came to our hospital. There was a history of cerebral infarction in the past 15 days. After admission, the ambulatory blood pressure was improved (arterial pressure 130–150 mmHg); head and neck CT angiography (CTA) showed the following: the right internal carotid artery was slender, and the end was occluded; the right middle cerebral artery was occluded with small collateral vessels; the left middle cerebral artery M1 segment was tumor-like protrusion, possibly aneurysm (6.2 × 4.4 mm); the initial segment of the left internal carotid artery, the hard plaque of segment C6-7, and the lumen slightly narrowed; head DSA showed the following: the right internal carotid artery cavernous sinus was distally occluded, and the left brain artery M1 end had an irregular aneurysm; head MRI showed the right basal ganglia and corona infarction; PWI showed a slight decrease in delayed perfusion in the bilateral hemispheres of the semicovale, radiographic coronal region, temporoparietal occipital lobe, right frontal lobe and basal ganglia region, and cerebellar hemisphere, suggesting hypoperfusion. On admission to the hospital for physical examination, it's observed the consciousness, fluent speech, and execution as directed, normal high-level neurological function, left limb muscle strength V-, right limb muscle strength V, and normal muscle tone of limbs. Combined with the condition and related examinations, the diagnosis was “Transient ischemic attack (TIA), cerebral infarction, and left middle cerebral aneurysm”. Combined with medical history and related examinations, the patient had cerebral ischemia as the main symptom. DSA examination found an unruptured aneurysm in the M1 segment of the left middle cerebral artery. After multidisciplinary discussion, one-stage right superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) anastomosis and encephalo-duro-arterio-myo-synangiosis (STA-MCA-EDMS) was performed, and the left-side aneurysm clipping operation was performed in the second stage after 1 month. Key points for patient management during the perioperative period were as follows: Three days before surgery, infusion therapy was given to improve circulation, nourish brain nerves, and protect brain function. Intraoperative: during the beginning of anesthesia, surgical operation, and postoperative recovery, it's always maintained the cuff according to the patient's dynamic blood pressure; arterial pressure should fluctuate in the range of 130–150 mmHg to maintain cerebral perfusion to prevent drastic fluctuations in blood pressure and cerebrovascular accidents. Postoperative: head CT examination on the first day after surgery; ECG monitoring for the first 3 days after surgery to maintain the cuff arterial pressure fluctuating in the range of 130–150 mmHg. The fluid volume was gradually reduced on the fourth day after the operation, and the patient was discharged on the ninth day after surgery. Neurological examination at discharge was the same as before surgery.
