Article 4
A 61-year-old, right-handed Caucasian woman presented with a two-week history of increasing headache, which was not described as severe. There was no specific time when the headache began. Her blood pressure was 130/80mmHg. A plain CT scan of the head with 5mm thick axial slices obtained on a 64-slice scanner did not show any subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Her CT angiogram showed an aneurysm with a transverse diameter of 0.6cm and a maximum diameter of 0.8cm arising from the basilar artery at the origin of the right superior cerebellar artery. Cerebrospinal fluid obtained by lumbar puncture showed 513×106/L erythroid and 293×106/L nonerythroid cells (98% lymphocytes) in the first tube and 16×106/L erythroid and 371×106/L nonerythroid cells (92% lymphocytes) in the third tube. Her total protein level was 0.57g/L (normal range 0.15 to 0.45g/L) and glucose was 2.4mmol/L (serum was 9mmol/L). There was no xanthochromia on visual inspection of the CSF. Culture of the CSF did not yield any bacteria. Enterovirus, herpes simplex virus, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, human herpes virus 8 and West Nile virus immunoglobulin M ribonucleic acids were not detected by polymerase chain reaction in the CSF. A diagnosis of viral meningitis with associated right superior cerebellar artery aneurysm was made. The patient was discharged home and seen as an outpatient 20 days later, at which time she complained of fatigue and blurry vision in the right eye. There was no diplopia or pupil abnormality on examination. It was recommended that she undergo endovascular coil repair of the aneurysm, which she went home to consider. Twenty-one days after the first presentation, the patient presented with sudden onset of severe headache. Her Glasgow Coma Score was 15 and she was neurologically intact. A cranial CT scan showed diffuse, thin SAH, blood in the occipital horns of the lateral ventricles and acute hydrocephalus. Our patient deteriorated and when her Glasgow Coma Score was 10, an external ventricular drain was inserted. CT angiography showed a bilobed (anterior and posterior lobes) right superior cerebellar artery aneurysm that had slightly increased in size to approximately 0.6 by 1.0cm. Eighteen hours later, our patient underwent endovascular coiling of her aneurysm. This was done using balloon remodeling. There was a small residual portion of aneurysm neck filling (residual neck). Our patient recovered and at last follow-up 51 months later, had a modified Rankin score of 1. She complained of fatigue and occasional headaches but was fully functional. A magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) showed a slight increase in the size of the residual aneurysm neck.
