Article 11:
A 64-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with complaints of dizziness, headache, nausea, and vomiting for 2 hours. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain at admission revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Subsequent CT angiography showed a ruptured anterior communicating artery (AcomA) aneurysm measuring 3 mm × 5 mm. She was assessed as Hunt–Hess grade II and had a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 15, with no focal deficits. Coil embolization of the aneurysm was performed on day 2 after onset. However, when the second coil was being pushed into the sac, leakage of contrast medium was noticed, indicating further hemorrhage. The leakage subsequently stopped, and the aneurysmal packing density was considered acceptable after the operating physician quickly released the second coil. The patient's pupils were equal at 1.5 mm. An urgent head CT showed SAH and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) mixed with the leaked contrast agent. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit, and her consciousness returned gradually to being partially responsive (GCS E2M6T) within several hours. To avoid worsening conditions, she was not extubated until her GCS was 13/15 (E3V4M6), the morning after the embolization. The patient was transferred back to the general ward on day 4. A CT scan on day 6 demonstrated hemorrhage in the subarachnoid space, right frontal horn, and bilateral occipital horns. On day 8, lumbar drainage was performed to drain the CSF contaminated with blood and contrast agent. On day 12, with a GCS of 15, another head CT scan was performed, showing a new delayed cerebral infarction in the left occipital lobe, a blood clot in the temporal horn, and a reduction of SAH. No hydrocephalus or clots in the third ventricle (3 V) were noted. However, her condition deteriorated on the morning of day 19. About an hour after standing activities, she complained of a worsening headache and became drowsy. A head CT (performed at 10:13 am) showed that the clot in the right temporal horn had migrated into the 3 V, accompanied by mild hydrocephalus; no clot was seen in the fourth ventricle (4 V). Mannitol was administered to reduce intracranial pressure (ICP). However, the patient was found in a coma at about 2:20 pm. An urgent CT (2:57 pm) showed hydrocephalus aggravation, and the previous clot located currently in the 4 V. Afterward, the patient had a gradual improvement in consciousness level, awakening at about 6 pm. Owing to the consciousness level improvement, EVD was not performed. Consecutive CTs, therefore, revealed a dynamic process, with clot migration from the right temporal horn into the 4 V through the 3 V and aqueduct. These dynamics suggest that the transient disturbance of consciousness was due to TOH, caused by a small blood clot temporarily blocking the aqueduct. Thereafter, her recovery was uneventful. A further CT scan performed on day 21 showed remarkable improvement of the hydrocephalus and complete dissolution of the clot in the 4 V. The patient was discharged from the hospital 30 days after admission, with a final GCS score of 15 and without weaknesses. At follow-up 2 months after discharge, brain CT revealed nonrecurrence of hydrocephalus and an old infarction in the left occipital lobe.
